# Music-Industry-Insights
A streamlit page dedicated to some exploratory analysis of the Music Industry, Music Platforms, and Music Consumers over the past 45 years.
[Music Industry Analysis Streamlit](https://music-industry-analysis.streamlit.app/)

# Introduction
What is the problem you want to solve or the story you are trying to tell
Before my internship at Universal Music Group this summer, I wanted to get an understanding of what the Music Industry has been through in the past and what trends to look forward to in the future. Given that my role will revolve around revenue and analytics I chose datasets that would help me explore at a granular level what trends were for certain consumption formats, genres, and demographic groups. It was interesting to see some high-level trends in music consumption sales. Previously popular forms of music like physical Vinyls and CDs have seen above-marginal increases in sales revenue over the past few years as Gen Z has become infatuated with collecting physical media. Also, older generations like Gen X and Baby Boomers tend to be more price-sensitive when it comes to music consumption and as such are the primary leaders in free/ad-supported platform usage. I designed this app so that as you go through the various tabs, you can learn based on the categories that are of importance to you. This was extremely helpful in building out my visualization capabilities in addition to immersing myself in industry knowledge.

# Data design
The data chosen for this analysis comes from a variety of sources such as RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America), music blogs, and Kaggle. A majority of the work was centered on making the data the best format for table and chart visualizations. A lot of data frame transformation/melting was required to get views across and within specific categories. Given the data sources are reputable, there was not a very large need for data cleaning or outlier removal.  For the construction of the map, a United States Shapefile was downloaded and merged with another dataset that I was using. The resulting merge was written into a geo-JSON file and finally displayed using the library folium. 

Future work:
Another reason why I chose to create this work was due to my strong interest in understanding consumer behavior. If I could gain data directly from streaming platforms like Apple Music, Tidal, or Spotify I would love to incorporate a more in-depth analysis on the streaming platforms tab. The data would ideally contain the listening habits of a typical consumer by region, genre, and time spent on the platform. I would then ultimately have a variety of comparisons with these data points to truly understand what type of users each platform primarily houses and their main selling points. These results could help inform marketing strategy within each respective company as well as help identify partnerships to continue targeting each platform's most profitable market of consumers. 
